## Make React Forms Simple Again

Forms are fundamental to modern CRUD apps. Still, they are generally uninteresting for a developer and at best not profoundly unpleasant for the user. If you are a front-end application developer, chances are they are a core component of your job. Yet, despite this, [developing them is probably something you never actually enjoy doing](http://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/masochism). If this is the case, why do we spend so much time [rewriting the same functionality](https://github.com/search?l=JavaScript&q=form&type=Repositories&utf8=%E2%9C%93) every time a new framework comes around? Just look at how many times we as a community have re-implemented something as simple as a dropdown just to get it to fit with the next framework or design architecture that comes along. It's a massive drain on developer resources, not to mention sanity.

I cannot offer a solution to this problem. There will never be a form library comprehensive enough to solve all of our problems and still meet ever-changing design requirements. Even if there was, I don't believe it's something worth chasing given the immediate state of the JavaScript ecosystem. So, what should we do instead? For starters, limit how much your application relies on 3rd-party solutions -- "solution" becoming more ironic as time moves on and requirements divert. One rule of thumb is to consider the size and claims the abstraction; the more boastful the claims the more hesitant you should be. Putting this into practice is more difficult than it sounds, but forms are an easy place to start.


With that out of the way, let's set some ground rules. Forms are, at heart, basic I/O. They take some user input, perform validation, and submit that data to the server. From a high-level, a form is a model with setters (input), and its output is a function of that model and any business rules built around it. Considering this, a form library cannot be entirely generic and still remain practical; one designed for Angular is not well suited for React, Vue, et al. However, if we lower the magnifying glass (in this case into React land), what _isn't_ wholly necessary is a Flux-, Redux-, Redux-Bootstrap-, MobX-, or any Any Other-form library. What if we stopped looking at forms as something to be solved via a framework, and something more pluggable and composeable, something more akin to middleware?
